hi my name is Anne glass I'm a reading
and learning specialist at a private
school in New York City and I work with
kindergarteners through 3rd graders on
reading word study and writing skills in
addition to being a reading specialist
and learning specialist I'm also a
parent and today I'm going to talk to
you about topics in reading almost every
school from at least first grade on
requires students to read about 20 to 30
minutes each night now getting your
trial to actually sit down and read the
book can often be a challenge and I hear
from parents all the time that it
usually culminates in a battle involving
bribery threats pleading and all kinds
of drama there are some things that you
can do to avoid getting to this point
the first one is to model your own
reading if your child sees you reading
and enjoying a book he's going to be
much more likely to sit down and do it
it's a great way to avoid a do as I say
and not as I do scenario and children
who grow up in households where reading
as a desired activity are much more
likely to be independent readers on
their own the second suggestion is to
make sure your child has a designated
reading place that could be in bed or a
special chair or on the sofa or you know
just anywhere in the in your home where
he feels comfortable reading you can
even have a discussion around that
discussing where you enjoy reading you
might have a special chair and you can
talk about how that feels comfortable to
you and it's a place where you can
really concentrate and create a quiet
bubble for reading for yourself another
important tip for enforcing reading time
at home and making it a pleasant thing
to do is to eliminate possible
distractions that means turning off the
TV and turning off the computer and also
making sure that noisy siblings are out
of the way and quiet which I know is
easier said than done it's also
completely acceptable to provide a small
bribe or gimmick to your child if you
think that will motivate him to start
reading I recently gave my son a book
light and he actually thought it was
fantastic
he looks forward every night to getting
into bed at bedtime and pulling the
covers up over his head turning on his
book light and reading for about a half
an hour so that's actually worked out
really nicely it felt like a treat for
him and it made it something fun to do
and he's also told me that it just
creates the silence around him where
it's just him and his book one gimmick
or bribe that I would advise against and
I've seen a few of these lately are
these bookmarks that have a digital
clock on them and you can actually set
the clock for the 20 or 30 minutes that
is required for reading the problem with
this is that it's the only thing your
child's going to pay attention to and
they will watch the minutes tick town
until the required time is up so there's
never going to be an opportunity for
that child to really dig into the book
and have the pleasure of losing himself
in a story